---
layout: post
title:  "Sketching the idea"
date:   2018-04-11 20:14:18 +0200
categories: architecture idea
---
This project aims at creating a tracking system to be used in field exercises by relief organizations.

### Requirements

* Tracking is done *indoor* and *outdoor*.
* Location data is analyzed in *real-time* and saved for *later analysis*.
* The system is based on Bluetooth Low Energy (*BLE*). Wifi networks may improve its accuracy.
* *Smartphones* (android, iOS) are integrated:
  * To allow outdoor-tracking in large areas (GPS).
  * As active (scanning) or passive (beaconing) devices.
* A *wifi (mesh) setup* and the *internet* are used to transmit location data. 
A wifi setup is needed in indoor scenarios (cave, tunnel), while existing GPRS/UMTS/LTE networks cover large areas (outdoor).
* An *active scanning infrastructure* (i.e. *eps32*, *mqtt*) provides beaconing and scans for mobile devices.

<br />
 
### Nice to have 
* Site navigation using smartphones
* Low cost, wide area networks (i.e. LoraWAN) for large outdoor areas not covered by existing mobile networks
* GPS receivers assisting the outdoor deployment of BLE-Beacons.

<br />
 
### Results
We focus on creating:
1. An IoT-firmware implementing active scanning and real-time analysis (i.e. using esp32)
2. An iOS / Android app supporting active and / or passive scanning using ordinary smartphones
3. A tactical workbench to be used in field
4. A deployment-guide (incl. mesh / wifi / internet)
 
Future work may cover tactical evaluations, tools for retrospective analysis 
and related technologies (i.e. solar wifi meshes)
